Gabriel is joining us from the United
Nations in New York so Gabriel what more
are we learning about what exactly these
these measures
entail yeah these are three new
provisional measures just announced by
the icj within the last hour or so we've
been sifting through them it's only
about a three-page document here so it
doesn't take too long but the three key
points are basically this uh number one
it C it all deals with humanitarian Aid
the first provisional measure calls on
Israel uh with to take effective
measures to immediately get humanitarian
Aid that need those who need it
everything uh they say from food water
electricity fuel shelter clothing
hygiene and sanitation requirements the
second uh provisional measure is also
calling on the Israeli military to Halt
with in their words immediate effect any
military action that could hinder the
delivery o of this humanitarian Aid so
uh and then the third provisional
measures the court is asking that Israel
issue a report uh uh back to the icj on
how it's implementing uh these new
Provisions in one month's time which
would be April 28th so the first two
provisional measures might seem very
similar to the six provisional measures
that the court laid out in late January
and they are similar quite frankly what
these are as the court kind of explains
not in these certain terms but uh
insinuates these are enhancements if you
will essentially the court is saying
here uh the situation is getting worse
in Gaza here's two of or three of the
provisional measures we want to
highlight and accentuate that we we
meaning the court is asking Israel uh to
abide by immediately right and we'll
obviously wait to see whether there's
any reaction from the Israeli side to
this but Gabriel um is there some to be
said about the timing as to why these
measures were introduced
now there is and the court actually lays
that out in the first part of their uh
uh uh provisional measures here the
bottom line is the situation on the
ground in Gaza has gotten worse since
the court issued those provisional
measures in late January January 26th
the court says uh these are
modifications uh because of in their
words the change in the situation on the
ground in Gaza they say when we wrote or
issued our January 26th provisional
measures uh They said that the people of
Gaza were facing a risk of famine the
icj says now that famine is setting in
and that is why in their words it
justifies the modification in these
provisional measures so the bottom line
is the court looks at the situation on
the ground in Gaza and says said we need
need to update our provisional measures
and that's exactly what they've done
okay thank you Gabriel Lando thanks for
that update from the
UN